# ML-Project
This is our final code for hand written digit classification using various models. 
In this project, we have trained various models for handwritten digit classification.

1. Introduction:
Handwritten digit recognition is the computer’s abilityto read and accurately classify the human handwritten dig-its from different sources like photographs, papers, mobiledisplays, etc., into ten predefined classes (0-9).  It is one ofthose topics involving boundless research in the field of Ar-tificial Intelligence. From number plate detection to sortingpostal mails, from bank cheque processing to reading nu-meric entries in forms filled up by hand, digit recognitionhas numerous applications.  Due to other peoples’ differentwriting styles, it is a challenging task to perform digit clas-sification.  This research brings up a comprehensive com-parison between many known classifiers available in Ma-chine Learning and Deep Learning. The algorithms we usedare Convolutional Neural Networks,  K-Nearest Neighbor,Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines, MultilayerPerceptron, Decision Trees, Random Forests, and GaussianNa ̈ıve-Bayes.  The comparison is carried out based on ac-curacies and training times.The accuracy of a model is paramount because more ac-curate models will make better predictions.  For real-worldscenarios,  a  model  with  low  accuracy  is  not  suitable.   Inbank cheque processing, the system recognizes the amountfilled  and  date  written  on  the  cheque,  and  high  accuracyis crucial here.  Incorrect recognition can cause significantdamage,  which  is  undesirable.   So  this  paper  emphasizescomparing  different  classifiers  based  on  their  accuracy  toapply the best model in practical situations with the marginof error being as low as possible.This  report  aims  to  provide  a  good  understanding  ofmany  classifiers  available  in  Machine  learning  and  deeplearning for handwritten digit classification. It also gives in-formation regarding the efficiency of the algorithms in per-forming the required task.   The upcoming sections of thepaper will discuss some related works in this domain, fol-lowed by a description of the dataset used to train the classi-fiers and the required pre-processing. This will be followedby the methodology and implementation of the classifiersfor a better understanding and, lastly, the results’ analysisand conclusion.  The last section of the paper has citationsof references used

Added both ipynb and python code 

you can refer ipynb if you wants to check the outputs. 
